[Music]
whether you live in a monarchy or not
there's something inherently appealing
about meeting royalty in person while
most of us will probably never get that
chance it couldn't hurt to brush up on
your court etiquette just in case nobody
wants to wind up being thrown out of her
Majesty's dinner party so remember the
rules if you want to avoid making a
royal fool of yourself
by the way let's just assume right here
that burping or some other release of
gas is forbidden so we'll stick to the
main ones number one under dressing now
we all agree that first impressions are
important and it's twice as important
when greeting royalty you might think
that you look good in your t-shirt and
jeans shorts and it might even be true
but that kind of outfit would get you
thrown out of even the least formal
royal gathering while there's no
explicit dress code for visiting the
royal family you should stick to formal
wear this means suits for men and either
a dress or jacket and skirt for women if
the first lady couldn't wear a sweater
in Buckingham Palace you better be
careful if you don't want to end up all
over the British tabloids number two
showing up empty-handed
everybody likes presents and the Queen
is no exception
the practice of presenting the monarch
with a gift is a tradition going back
centuries and respecting it is a great
way to get on her Majesty's good side
but don't think you can give the Queen
just any old thing Her Majesty won't
like it if you show up with a pair of
socks gifts should fit the occasion and
carry some symbolic meaning it should be
something representative of the city or
country you're visiting from or that
commemorates whatever event she's
attending it's almost never a surprise
when the Queen goes places so use your
planning time wisely to think about an
appropriate gift don't panic you've
already gotten an audience with the
royal family this should be the easy
part number three touching the Queen
have you ever just wanted to run up and
give somebody a hug
how about a pat on the shoulder maybe a
little nudge on the arm how about just
offering a firm handshake to a new
acquaintance well most of the time
there's no harm done but when it comes
to royalty you were better off keeping
your hands to yourself while the Queen
might reach out a hand for you to shake
it's considered bad manners for guests
to initiate any sort of physical contact
with the reigning monarch as with most
things on this list you're better off
just letting the Queen take the lead
she's been the United Kingdom's head of
state for close to 70 years I'm guessing
she knows the rules by now number four
overly casual greetings so reaching out
to give the Queen a handshake is a big
no-no but saying yo Queen how's it going
isn't going to win you many friends
either
the correct way to greet Her Majesty is
with a formal bow or curtsy don't worry
no one's expecting you to hurl yourself
at the floor men are expected to bow
from the shoulders just lowering their
heads out of respect if you're a woman
and don't know how to curtsy don't worry
just put your right foot behind the left
with most of your weight on the left
foot then bend your knees outward while
keeping your back straight stay in that
position for a second or two before
rising back up see that wasn't too bad
was it but wait you might be saying I've
seen news clips of American politicians
meeting with the Queen how come they
didn't have to bow well technically
visiting foreigners don't have to bow or
curtsy but unless you're representing
your government in some capacity it's
still the polite thing to do and a
little politeness can go a long way
number 5
sitting down eating or leaving before
the Queen so it's been a long day and
your feet are seriously aching wouldn't
you like to take a load off these fancy
chairs sure look comfortable well stop
right there
has the Queen sat down yet No then it
looks like you're going to have to keep
standing a little while longer since
it's really rude to sit down while the
Queen's still on her feet a similar rule
applies to eating I know you're hungry
and that roast duck smells great but
guests are expected to wait patiently
for the Queen to begin her meal before
digging in it's also very improper to
get up and leave without permission or
to arrive late but quite frankly that's
just good old-fashioned manners you
wouldn't want to be rude to the Queen
would you I wouldn't have you ever seen
her Majesty's corgis her terrifying
number six speaking out of turn things
have been going pretty well for you
lately not only have you been given the
rare opportunity to have a face-to-face
with the Queen but you've also even been
invited to an official state dinner at
Buckingham Palace more than that Her
Majesty was so impressed with whatever
you did to earn royal attention that
you've been seated next to the Queen
herself
it was bobsledding wasn't it it's always
bobsledding
but the one thing bobsledding can't save
you from is embarrassment at formal
functions before speaking to the Queen
it's important to take note of where
exactly you've been seated as a rule the
guest of honor will be seated directly
to the Queen's right and it's customary
for Her Majesty to address them first
in general it's considered good form to
let the Queen begin the conversations
anyway so if you follow that rule you
won't need to worry about the correct
speaking order feel free to talk to the
person on your right though maybe
they're into bobsledding too number
seven asking personal questions
but finally happened queen elizabeth ii
is talking to you the meeting of a
lifetime is finally underway this is
your one chance to get to know the real
Queen and you're just bursting with
questions
oh there you better slow down and think
about what you're going to say you might
be super curious to hear the truth about
some royal family drama but the Queen is
definitely the wrong person to be
hassling with personal questions while
there isn't a list of forbidden or
approved topics it's best to steer away
from anything private or potentially
controversial if Her Majesty asked your
opinion on something go ahead and give
it just remember to be polite in your
responses number eight addressing
royalty by name okay so far you've made
a good impression you dressed properly
bowed when you were supposed to and
waited for the Queen to sit down before
taking a load off she's finished her
chat with the guest of honor and has now
turned to you you avoided any questions
about her politics or personal life and
all seems right in the world then
suddenly and without warning tragedy
strikes you accidentally addressed her
majesty by her first name and now all
eyes are on you and your social faux pas
so Liz what's the buzz around the palace
these days
ah the queen is not impressed well there
have been some instances of fellow
monarchs addressing one another on a
first-name basis unless you're King
Harald of Norway
you shouldn't even think about
addressing the Queen by her name
incidentally if you are the king of
Norway thanks for watching your majesty
you mind writing something down in the
comments for me and you can probably
skip ahead to the next entry on our list
unless you can't get enough of my
soothing voice which in case this is the
place to be now as I was saying queen
elizabeth should always be addressed as
your majesty or ma'am
well other members of the royal family
should be addressed as your royal
highness and either sir or ma'am
depending on the Royals gender as a rule
guests should always use the longer more
formal title for introductions well sir
or ma'am are acceptable once the
conversation is underway
number nine using French words another
thing that's important to remember is
that when speaking with the Queen or any
member of the royal family for that
matter it's considered impolite to use
French words this might seem a little
petty but you can't expect 1,000 years
of rivalry to wear off overnight that's
fine you might be thinking I don't speak
French anyways really if you're an
American do you call it a toilet or a
loo you call it perfume or scent if you
answer toilet or perfume congratulations
you're speaking French now while most
Brits wouldn't take offense to this sort
of language you'll get a few sneers in
polite society and you won't find any
polite er Society then at buckingham
palace while breaking the rules of
etiquette probably won't get you thrown
into the Tower of London and chains or
even out in the street you should be on
your best behavior if you want your
royal rendezvous to go smoothly oh and
that's selfie with the Queen sure go for
it
no not really so do you think you're
ready to meet Queen Elizabeth
which of these do's and don'ts surprise
to you the most let me know down in the
comments hey if you learned something
new today then give this video a like
and share with a friend but hey don't go
take that selfie with a queen just yet
we have over 2000 cool videos for you to
check out just click on this left or
right video and enjoy stay on the bright
side